Array - Linear data structure

Disadvantage:
1. Fixed size
2. Continuos storing of elements
3. Accepts only homogeneous data 


Types:
1. 1D array - only rows or columns.



2. 2D array - rows and columns.
- Can be called a stack of 1D arrays.



3. 3D array / multidimensional
- Can be called as a stack of 2D arrays.


DYNAMIC ARRAY CREATION - using new keyword.


Method is a block of code which is used to perform particular task.
ADV - Code reusability, Easy debugging


Types of METHODS
1. Pre-defined/ Inbuilt
2. User-defined


                 TASKS
1. Print all elements of an array.
2. Print all elements reverse order.
3. Print even numbers in array.
4. Print odd numbers in array.
5. Print how many odd and even numbers in array.
6. Print sum of the array.
7. Print the sum of the even numbers in array.
8. Print the sum of the odd numbers in array.
9. Print prime numbers in array.
10. Print the average value of array.
11. Find the maximum value in array.
12. Find the minimum value in array.
13. Search in an array.
14. Skip the particular value in array.


OOPS- It's a methodology. It contains collection of features to solve the real world problems.

BASIC CONCEPTS
Class - Blueprint or template which is used to create an Objects
Objects - Instance of class used to access the class properties
Static - non-access modifier used to declare members that belongs to the class itself, rather than any specific instance.
Constructor - Special type of method. It automatically executes when an instance of object.

** this - Keyword used to refer the current object.


Types of Constructor: 
1. Default
2. Parameterized 
3. Copy 
 

MAIN CONCEPTS:
Encapsulation - The process of wrapping the data into the single entity. To understand encapsulation you should know access modifiers.
Inheritance - The process used to properties and behaviour from one class to another class.
Polymorphism
Abstraction


Initializer block are the blocks of code which will automatically executes when instance of an object is created or class is loaded.

Types of Initializer block: 
1. Static Initializer block
2. Intance Initializerb block


S T R I N G
String is a class. It is a collection of characters. It's a non primitve data type. It's immutable.

Creating a string: 
2 ways -> 
1. String str = "Hello".
2. Using String class (making an object).

Enumeration - It's a special type of class in java which is used to definie a fixed set of named constant values.

Two types of initializers -
Instance Initializer / Static instance initializer


If you want to access private property you should create two methods getter method and setter method.

Types of Inheritance: 
1. single
2. multi-level
3. multiple
4. heirarchial
5. hybrid

* When a class inherits from another class it is single Inheritance which itself also has one subclass.

Polymorphism -
is a concept where one concept is able to perform multiple ways.

Method overloading , method overwriting

Multiple method with same name, same parameter but different class.


Rules and regulations of interface

1. 